C supports many different type of data. They may be assigned to a variable. The variables in C can store

* type that stores integers

* type that store non integral numerical values

* type that store character


Some basic data type in C;-

int, float, boolean etc.


####INT

Int data type is the data type that stores the integer value

It can store the integers as negative as well as non negative. as well as zero

Integer values that contain 0 and x are taken as Hexadecimal (base16). Ex: int RBGG= 0xFFEF0D

The values in the integer data type is stored without use of a comma. No spaces are permitted between digits

###Float

Data type that is used for the storage of decimal digits

Floating point constants can also store scientific expression

1.7e4 is a valid floating point value representing 1.7*10^4

##Double

The double data type is the same as type float, only with roughly twice the precision

Double is used when the range provided by the float is not sufficient. It can store twice as many as significant digits

Most computers represent double value using 64 bits

All floating point constants are taken double by compiler

To explicitly express a float constant add f or F to end of the number

1.2f or 1.2F

##### _Bool

Boolean expression in _Bool, it's all means true or false.

 It's a yes or no 0 or 1.

 So it's indicated for binary choices essentially.

Boolean variables are used in programs that need indicate a true or false type of answer.

So for example, a variable this type might be used to indicate

whether all the data has been read from a file, yes or no.

Has all the data been read from a file?

If it's 0, false, 1 yes, which we'll talk about now.

So 0 is used to indicate a false value, 1 indicates a true value.

So even though it's true or false values, the way that the data is stored in memory is 0 or 1 as a numeric.

But their numerics mean that 0 means false, 1 equals true.

So if you were to print out Booleans, you would see values 0 and 1 printed out, not true and false.

But they mean true or false. They only can have 2 values.

short int or int can be used when the memory is too low and we try to economically save it.

The type long int may use large value but it stores far more greater value of int.

unsigned int denotes the non-negative value of int.



